All right. So this course isn't about TypeScript and
I'm talking about TypeScript right now but I'll just tell
you a little bit in order for you to be
able to follow along. So I'll do a quick
intro to what you need to know for this workshop
Let me just open our code. Okay, so
this is the projects that we've created and then at
the root directory you'll see a T s conflict or
Jason and this is basically all the options for the
typescript compiler and you can choose here um whether to
use strict mode or not, whether to allow implicit
Aeneas, like how strict you want to do in
your type checking. Also whether you should ignore some
parts, you can set up module, aliases or
that kind of stuff. So this is the main
conflict fail. Mhm Alright, main things you need
to know about TypeScript how to declare types. So
suppose you had a user object that looks like this
so we've got a user and the user has a
name, age and hobbies so to declare a type
for this object, we can use the type command
. So I'm going to do type user. So
types are usually upper case uh workshop than upper case
. So we're going to do type capital user equals
and then we do name, which is a string
age number and then hobbies, which is a string
array, so do the notes, an array,
you can do the type and then array in the
end or you can wrap the whole thing in array
. I prefer this notation and then we can explicitly
set the type of the object to be user.
So so here we say that user colon is of
type user. So here for example, if I
added um additional fields that didn't exist in my user
type, I would get TypeScript there's era. So
this is actually quite handed to check using the typescript
playground. So if I open this TypeScript playground can
actually show you the studio. Yeah. Mhm.
Cool. So right now it's happy. But say
I removed these hobbies. All right, and you
can see that this is going to error. And
similarly, if I added another field um like pets
, which should also be a string array, then
the user will error because it's saying that it's missing
my pets type. All right. Um We can
also have optional types. So this means that the
argument decided typed or undefined. So say that we
added hobbies a sad pets here as a string.
Right? And it's saying, oh no user doesn't
have pets, but then I can make it optional
by adding a question mark after the pets. And
now it's fine because you can have pets or you
might not. So we can have another user if
we did use it to And also make this of
type user and say name paul age 30 hobbies.
Let's make copies an empty array. This is also
valid because an empty string array is still it's still
a string array and then pet. Let's say that
paul has a rabbit and now it's fine. So
both of these users are valid user types then we
have an old type so you can use enemas for
this but I prefer not to because it's less boilerplate
if you don't um you can use this symbol which
acts as an awe between the options. So for
example we can add a nationality so we can have
nationality that's british or american or estonian. So if
I copy this. Mhm Yeah. Now it's saying
oh no both of these users are invalid because they
don't have nationality and I can do nationality british and
here let's do nationality estonian. Now both of these
are valid but we can only choose from these three
options. So let's do german and it's actually going
to say that Germany is not a sustainable to these
three types. This is how you can do and
all type, can you declare max during like strings
and numbers in the array for example. Yes.
Yeah you can so for example if hobbies um was
a string or a number, you would do brackets
and do a string or number and then here I
could put numbers here but I wouldn't be able to
for example do an object. So this is going
to say oh it's not a string or a number
. Yeah. And lastly so when typing functions,
uh the word void is used to denote the lack
of a return type. So for example for dysfunction
which is a longer where it takes a message and
returns nothing because we're just logging out this message.
We would say that this return type is void now
type of their components. So here is a simple
component that just import react imports text and we return
a greeting. This component in TypeScript is exactly the
same. The only thing that's different is note that
after the title of name of the component we add
react dot fc fc stands for functional components. Now
the reason that we do that is in this case
it knows that you should return a function, you
should return, you should return something from it.
So for example if you return null. Absar it's
fine. But if you return nothing for example you
forgot your return keyword can happen to the best of
us. Um this is going to give you a
warning, is going to say, I think you
meant to return something. The other thing you get
for free is you get the Children property. So
if your if your function has Children like Children is
typed in by default so you don't have to worry
about them and you actually take the properties. So
here we have another user we got react text and
we just take the first name and last name and
add them together in TypeScript Well basically add, we
create a type for the user props the same way
we did before here, and we define all the
props so you can use optional parameters are also whatever
you want, and then we pass it into react
Fc. So basically this component is a component without
any props. If you add props, you just
add them here.